Model deletion contract rules (#8426)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/best-practices/how-we-mesh/mesh-6-coordinate-versions.md

1. In the model's `properties.yml` file, set a [`deprecation_date`](/reference/resource-properties/deprecation_date) for the model's old version. The `deprecation_date` is a date in the future that signifies when the old version will be removed.
   
   This notifies downstream consumers and will appear in the `dbt run` logs as a warning that the old version is nearing deprecation and consumers will need to [migrate](#best-practices-for-consumers) to the new version.
   
   :::important

>    If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), you won't be able to delete the model until after the deprecation date has passed. 

Author: ```suggestion
   If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), you won't be able to delete the model until after the deprecation date has passed. dbt won't allow deleting the model(s) with enforced contracts until after their deprecation_date to protect downstream consumers.
```

>    If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), you **cannot delete the model** until after the deprecation date has passed. This ensures downstream consumers have adequate time to migrate before the model is removed.

Author: ```suggestion
   If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), you won't be able to delete the model until after the deprecation date has passed. 
```

>    If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), you won't be able to delete the model until after the deprecation date has passed. dbt won't allow deleting the model(s) with enforced contracts until after their deprecation_date to protect downstream consumers.

Author: ```suggestion
   If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), you won't be able to delete the model until after the deprecation date has passed. dbt won't allow deleting the model(s) with enforced contracts until after their deprecation_date to protect downstream consumers.

If you try to delete a versioned model before its `deprecation_date`, dbt will raise an error during development runs and cause jobs to fail.
```

                exclude: [column_to_remove]   # <— specify which columns were removed in v2
    ```
    </File>

> 3. Merge the new version into the main branch.

Reviewer: Do we need to renumber these steps? The previous order looks correct

#### Step 6: Clean up deprecated versions

After all consumers have [migrated](#best-practices-for-consumers) to the new version, you can clean up the deprecated version. You could choose to "hard delete" all old versions, or "soft delete" them for continuity.

> :::caution Models with enforced contracts

Author: ```suggestion
:::info Models with enforced contracts
```

> If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), make sure the deprecation_date has passed before trying to delete the model. dbt won't allow deleting the model(s) with enforced contracts until after their deprecation_date to protect downstream consumers.

Author: ```suggestion
If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), make sure the deprecation_date has passed before trying to delete the model. dbt won't allow deleting the model(s) with enforced contracts until after their `deprecation_date` to protect downstream consumers.

If you try to delete a versioned model before its `deprecation_date`, dbt will raise an error during development runs and cause jobs to fail.
```

> If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), ensure the deprecation date has passed before attempting to delete the model. dbt will prevent deletion of models with enforced contracts until after their deprecation date to protect downstream consumers.

Author: ```suggestion
If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), make sure the deprecation_date has passed before trying to delete the model. dbt will block deleting the model(s) with enforced contracts until after their deprecation_date to protect downstream consumers.
```

> If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), make sure the deprecation_date has passed before trying to delete the model. dbt will block deleting the model(s) with enforced contracts until after their deprecation_date to protect downstream consumers.

Author: ```suggestion
If your model has an [enforced contract](/docs/mesh/govern/model-contracts), make sure the deprecation_date has passed before trying to delete the model. dbt won't allow deleting the model(s) with enforced contracts until after their deprecation_date to protect downstream consumers.
```
